Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor had been at the film studios where Elizabeth was finishing off a movie.
And of course nobody, nobody really knew what St. David's Day was, and they were all excited about finishing the movie.
So Richard was sort of taking a back seat, and he was a little bit unhappy, but he went along with the excitement, and
the studio crew wanted to take Elizabeth out for lunch because apparently she was very easy to work with and they all liked it, so they had a good time.
And eventually they all ended up back at Richard's house in London, and the biographer, author of the book, was there.
And they had a few drinks, and finally Elizabeth went to bed, and Richard was left with the biographers.
And they were talking, and Richard put on a tape recording of Milkwood where he was actually reading one of the parts, and they sat and listened to it.
And things got very quiet, and Richard was feeling someone to hear right.
And I'd like to read you what happened.
Dylan Thomas of the Wild Welsh Genius had originally written that inspired narration for the tympanic resonance and tremulous sweetness of Richard's tongue.
And now great waves of nostalgia swept over the richest and most famous son of Wales.
He looked gruelingly into his tall vodka glass. His mind was back in the valleys, back in the far removed world of his childhood.
There's nobody like us, I tell you. And by the way, you haven't included in the book that story about my father.
Beautiful he was, sitting outside the miner's arms on a Saturday night.
After he'd had a few jars, he would fix his stupendously stoned eyes on his fellow miners and say in Welsh,
Poisin vel nid. And they would answer, nid.
Poisin vel nid.
Who is like us? Nobody.
Who is like me? Nobody.
Welsh Love Letter
Were all the peaks of Gwynedd in one huge mountain pile,
nixed on Moelhoin,
Moeliget, Moelhebog, and Eddory on top and all between us, I climbed them, climbed them all to reach you.
Oh how I love you.
Were all the streams of Gwynedd in one huge great river join, Goyfaw, Goyleed,
Glastlin, Argyn, and Mawddech in flood and all between us, I'd swim them, swim them all to reach you.
Oh how I love you.
Were all the forts of Gwynedd in one great fortless link,
Cairn and Castle, Criciath and Cardlech,
Connoy and Caernarfon, and its flames,
I jumped them, jumped them all to reach you. Oh how I love you.
See you Saturday if it's not raining.